This is one of multiple videos that demonstrate troubleshooting scenarios in campus environments.
In this topology I have full switches configured switch one and switch to a course switches switch three
and switch for access switches.
Now to keep the topology simple I haven't got cross connects configured here or additional access switches
in my CCN a course I show you a larger topology but for this troubleshooting video we'll keep it simple.
We've been told that P.S. 1 in this network is not able to ping P.C. to in this topology I'm using routers
to simulate pieces.
So let's test that can write a 1 or P.S. 1 ping 10 1 3 2
so it looks like the pings of failing P.S. 1 is in VLAN 2.
And P.S. 2 isn't v land 3 show IP round writing is disabled on this rider but it does have a default
gateway of tendered 1 to 2 2 5 4 so we should be able to ping this default gateway so ping tendered
1 2 2 5 4.
Yes we can.
Can we ping v land 3 on the default gateway yes we can.
So P.S. One can get to the default gateway.
What about P.C. to see he has resorted to acting as P.C. to show IP interface brief we have tendered
one to treat or two configured show IP rot.
Default gateway is tendered wandered 3 2 2 5 4 so can we ping that default gateway.
Looks like we can't.
So there seems to be a problem somewhere between P.S. 2 and switch 1.
Let's check on switch for connected to P.S. to so this is switch for show IP interface brief.
It's got an IP address of 10 1 1 4 paying 10 dot 1 that 1 or 2 5 4 that works.
That is the default gateway of the switch so we switch components default gateway cannot ping tendered
wandered 3 2 2 5 4.
Yes it can.
So we've established that this basic connectivity between the switch and the default gateway.
Let's have a look at our trunks.
Show interface.
Trunk
cranking is enabled on gigabit 0 0.
That's the interface between switch for and switch to show CTP neighbors.
We have a relationship to switch to but we've already proven that that works by being able to ping the
default gateway v lines are allowed across the trunk now can you spot a problem already in this topology.
What's the problem.
Based on that single command something's wrong notice gigabit 00 is a trunk but it's only allowing v
lands one to 2 and four.
But the pieces in VLAN 3.
So let's have a look at the configuration of this gigabit interface.
This interface is configured for chunking and we're not restricting any v lines but we're only permitting
villains 1 to 2 and 4 cross the trunk.
Show interface gigabit 0 1 switch port
what's wrong here.
Can you spot the problem we're looking at the output of this interface on the switch what's wrong the
port has enabled it set as static access it's configured to use access veal and 3.
But notice this keyword something's wrong.
Show run interface gigabit.
0 1.
So the port is correctly configured to be in veal and 3 but show veal and brief will show us that there
is a problem.
Can you see the issue.
Where is the veal and three so be careful.
You can have a port configured in a V land and not have that villain in the veal and database.
If that's true the port is essentially error disabled.
It won't work.
No traffic is gonna be sent through that port because it belongs to a rogue villain.
This is often the case when VTB is used.
If you delete a villain on another switch that update is propagated to other switches in the topology
VTB removes the villain from the villain database but doesn't take port out of the villain.
This port is manually configured to be part of villain 3 but villain 3 doesn't exist in the villain
database and hence the switch port command is showing us that that's an inactive villain on the port.
That's a problem.
So show VTB status it's configured as a server the switch so let's create villain 3 show villain brief
suddenly now we see Port gigabyte 0 1 configured in villain 3.
And when we look at the switch port we see that it's in V land 3.
That looks good.
So can write it to ping its default gateway.
We may have to wait a while for things to update but notice there the pings started succeeding.
Ken wrote a one now paying writer to acting as P.S. 2.
Yes it can.
So we've successfully result of the issue in this topology.
Be careful.
A port is statically configured in a VLAN but that requires the V Line in the V land database when using
standard v lands.
If the VLAN is not in the V land database the port is essentially in a rogue villain and is not used.
Traffic will not be sent through that port so I hope you found this video useful.
If he did please like it and please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.